Is Graph Bipartite? 
This repository contains a Python implementation of the Is Bipartite? problem using Breadth-First Search (BFS) and graph coloring.

A graph is bipartite if you can split its nodes into two groups such that no two adjacent nodes share the same group.

🧩 Problem Summary

You are given an undirected graph represented as an adjacency list:

graph[i] = list of nodes connected to node i


Your task is to check whether the entire graph is bipartite.

A graph is bipartite if:

Its nodes can be colored using two colors (e.g., +1 and -1)

No edge connects two nodes of the same color

All connected components satisfy this condition

If all components of the graph are bipartite, return:

True


Otherwise:

False

🧠 Intuition

We can treat this as a 2-coloring problem.

If we color one node +1,
all its neighbors must be colored -1.

If any neighbor is already colored and has the same color,
the graph is not bipartite.

We apply BFS because:

It naturally explores nodes layer by layer

It ensures correct alternating coloring (parent → child → next layer)

It handles disconnected graphs by starting BFS on every node

🔄 Algorithm Overview

Create a color array (called odd in the code) initialized with 0 meaning uncolored.

For every node:

If it's uncolored, start a BFS from that node.

In BFS:

Assign the starting node a color (e.g., -1)

Every neighbor gets the opposite color

If a conflict occurs (same-colored neighbors), return False

If all components are colored without conflict, return True.



📌 Key Points

BFS ensures nodes are colored correctly one level at a time.

Unconnected graphs are handled by running BFS on each component.

A conflict (same color on both ends of an edge) means the graph is not bipartite.

Works for small and large graphs.

🧪 Example

Input

graph = [
  [1,3],
  [0,2],
  [1,3],
  [0,2]
]


Explanation

Node 0 → color -1

Node 1 → color +1

Node 2 → color -1

Node 3 → color +1

No adjacent nodes share the same color.

Output

True



BFS traversal understanding
